so how can an animal so sensitive that
it can detect a rider's heartbeat work
in such a hazardous environment well
it's not easy there are at least nine
point two million horses in the United
States some are for work
others are pets or show horses but only
a few a very few will ever be considered
suitable candidates for police work
talent scouts scour the nation looking
for the best and the brightest horses
they can find on a few occasions they
find one that horse will then be put
through a rigorous month-long physical
and mental assessment to ascertain if
they do indeed have the right stuff
one of the things we look for when we
are purchasing a new horse is we'll see
how smart he is well we'll take him out
see where he jumps out what he's scared
of then the next day we'll do the same
thing and see if he jumps again if he
doesn't jump at it
that means he's learning but if the
horse keeps jumping at or it breaks out
in a sweat that means he's not he's not
good for police work
only one in ten horses will make it
through basic training
that's a 90% drop rate which means it's
harder to get into the SFPD horse unit
than it is for a recruit to make it
through the US Navy SEAL selection
process and that's a tough selection
process only 10% of the horses that we
bring in here make it through the
training period the ones that we have
are pretty exceptional but all that
training is worth it because
conservative estimates put the value of
one police horse on duty the same as ten
policemen on foot every time I hear a
horse is equal to ten foot soldiers
that's a well-trained officer and a
well-trained horse that's used to
whatever sensory problems that are
coming up now you may ask how is Chris
banging a dustbin lid or firing up a
leaf blower beneficial to a police horse
well as we've established horses by
nature are flight creatures but if they
trust their riders they will become
accustomed to these noises it's also the
rider that would prom the horse and send
this message through his seat up to that
brain in the front that says I'm gonna
take care of you you're gonna take care
of me at this point and no this isn't
polo played Texas style it's in fact the
horses and their riders developing their
crowd control skills the ball is used to
approaching sometimes and the new riders
come out here and they think that
they're pushing with the face of the
horse what they're doing is they're -
tracking in and the shoulder is the one
that if we ever have to move into people
that's what the ball teaches right there
all this training does two things one
the horse becomes accustomed to the
sight smells and sounds that are
commonplace in crowds and two it builds
an all-important bond between the rider
in his mouth
you